I wanted to kind of give you a um the
sound just sounds like it might be
random, but it's not. So, I want to map
it out for you real quick and then I
think it might have a different context
when you hear it, right? All right.
Let's see here. So, you can still hear
me, right? Okay, good. So,
the system is Oh, the system is called
Metabyte.
It's a system I designed to um allow me
to have this musical construct that um
is for music when it's not about an
audience. The pandemic made me start
thinking about that. What is music when
it's not about an audience? Right? And
so some of the things that I use music
for are for say for instance
photobiomodulation.
You see the flashing that's happening on
my face. I have a set of um electrodes,
two here and one here. So I use those
for brain stimulation.
>> Right. So these are well depending on
what the colors are. The green are the
um are the bilateral stimulation and the
um the red is this central one on the
corpus colossum. Right? So it kind of
plays into the idea that if you think of
if you think about the word cyborg as if
it were invented today, I would almost
it would almost be obvious that it would
be that would have an age dynamic. Wait
a second.
That's the loop. I have to turn that off
every once in a while. Uh that there
would be an age dynamic because I'm 55
this year, right? And so, uh, there's a
lot of things that I didn't need to fix
when I started this project that have to
be fixed constantly now, right? So,
one of So, I use a I use a 10- bit logic
that's based on the five bits of the
hand. So, there's 10 sensors on here,
right? And so, five bits gives you 32
values.
So if you think about that from the
perspective of um of the hand let's see
we have this
right and then
one that's zero this is zero one two
three
one two three
yeah I know it's it's hard and so think
about it like This
that's that goes like that. Then two
three four and then boom boom boom boom
boom
boom. So that is 0 1 2 4 8 16.
Right.
So that's how I and imagine the sound. I
mean the um the metabyte trajectory.
So when I do it in color when I do it in
color it's this
right. So let's see do that. Two three
this goes like this.
this, this,
this, that,
and that. And I add this little piece
here, there. So then now each of these
triangles, this this is
um
four bytes,
right? So this starts at
red. Let's see. Red,
green,
blue. So red is in the right ear, green
is in the left ear, and blue is center.
Right? So this gives me a visual of how
these things move over time, right? And
the last one is that this this logic
works. And there's another one that I
added so that I could bring it back into
the musical space. This is the first is
using music as an information system.
And then this is bringing it back to the
to 12 tone equal temperament. So then we
take the triangle, we do this
that
boom boom boom
uh
so that that gives 12 values, right?
Okay.
So, the representation of that,
I usually use the hand. I'll probably
save that for tonight, but I think this
is a better representation.
This is a I call it a dodcaract. This is
um a seed crystal of the form. So, this
is supposed to be red, but I shifted
them by accident. So, let's see.
That's 1
16.
So now if you have 32 and 32, you have
1,024,
you know, 0 to 10,023 have 124
possibility states, right? The real game
was how to have 1,024
uh states that are um
harmonically not going to drive you
crazy after a certain amount of time.
Right? So, one last graph. Watch this.
This one I'm happy about. This one I've
uh I've been playing with for a while.
So if you think about the 32 values and
then you drop in the alphabet, the
alphabet is this perfect Fibonacci
sequence, right? Um if you look at if
you know what the Fibonacci sequence is,
it's a value added to the next value in
the sequence or the last value in the
sequence. So 1 and 1 is 2. 1 and 2 is 3.
2 and 3 is 5. 3 and 5 is 8. 5 and 8 is
13. Um 8 and 13 is 21. 13 21 is 34. So
we'll stop there because we're only
going up to 32.
There are five vowels.
Let's see here.
So you have Oops, that's the wrong pen.
It gets to a point. Trust me.
So
let's do this like this. So you have
five vowels
A,
E, I, O, U. Right? Between A and E is
three uh letters E and I
H. I then you have five letters in
between I and O.
L M N O is uh shrink that a little bit.
P
Q R S T U and then there's five at the
end. U V W X Y Z. So you have
two sets of three.
That's a Fibonacci uh uh relationship.
And then three sets of five. If you do
it like this,
now you have five.
Five.
Let's see. That's an I in there.
Seven.
And well, I cheated there, but it's
actually five there. Right. So that
gives you
two two pentatonic scales, three um two
pentatonic scales,
um three blue scale, no two pentatonic
scales, three blue scales, and one more
pentatonic at the end. That means that
none of the sounds will clash with each
other.
Right? Okay.
So here we have that whatever this side
is governs what this side sounds like.
So if I start here,
anything on this side.
Oh wait. Oh wait, wrong one.
[music]
Right. That one.
That's a little higher.
Little higher.
And a little higher. So then when
they're active,
Okay. So
there is now there's a three-dimensional
dimensional thing here. One dimension of
amplitude, one dimension of pitch and
one dimension of time. Time. Time. I
have to tilt my head to get time.
wants to go by.
Right. So, this has time built in
So that's the representation of the
information space, right? Thank you.
Yeah.
[applause]
So the interesting part over the last
few years is that that is wonderful
honestly for just walking around and um
I transduce I got Chad GPT to make me um
an ASI um symbol transducer so I can
drop PDF files in and hear them through
this. it pulses a different kind of a
way, right? But there's a point where
there's a specificity to playing music
that this does not do. I can get melody
lines and I'll learn to do that more
over time, but I was a horn player
before I started going down this path.
Right? So, I use the same logic to
design this one that's also 3D printed.
It's based on, you know, it has the uh
Raspberry Pi Zero in it. Uh I use a lot
of Raspberry Pies, right? So now that
last triangle, it's that 32 val um the
32 variable value dropped down to 12. So
then but it still uses the same pulse
logic.
Let's see.
Oh
my god.
Right.
So all of these they kind of evolve on
their own. Right. So then the the the u
the logic that governs them is the same
in all of the devices here the this the
hand all of it. Right? So uh my the last
few years has been to get the logic
properly implemented. So the next um the
next interface is the feet. So I've been
getting that to where it's actually
comfortable. If it's not comfortable,
then I won't wear it and then the
music's going to suck anyway. So getting
the feet to be comfortable was um a
prerequisite of making it into something
more musical. But then thinking about it
less as some type of tap dancing
metaphor and more about what is the
music that the foot makes when it's
doing whatever it's doing. Right? And so
that jumps in. So now all of these are
they have a performative aspect to them
but they were designed to be an
information uh construct. So that's the
reason why I dropped those markers at
the beginning of the talk.
I feel that the real issue right now
that we're all picking up on in relation
to the amount of novelty that's
concessing right now, the real issue is
that it's all overly oculacentric.
There's only so much information we can
absorb visually. We're binocular vision
beings. So, at any given time, we can
only ever perceive half of a situation
that we're in. Right. So, but we hear in
360 degrees.
So having that as uh
I would like to see it be primary as a
primary information transduction of
internet information but even as a
supplementary information uh space to be
able to
to be able to um transduce that in a way
where one could in could ingest way more
information
which leads to an absurd question. What
would a 300 IQ look like, feel like,
taste like, whatever? What would that
be? It's absurd. I get it. But I think
that because of the way when I say in
IQ, I don't mean standardized test. I
mean metabolically reinforced
intellectual potential,
you know, and that if we're doing that
where it's not so much about um
uh re, you know, regurgitating facts
that we've learned, but actually in uh
internalizing how information can be
structured.
I mean, the thing that I'm playing with
right now, and when I say playing with
doesn't mean I've actually done it. just
means that it's something that I'm
meditating on. Is
is it possible to ingest an LLM?
You know, we're only ingesting the
outputs of LLMs. You know, we type some
symbols in and we get some symbols out.
But to be able to take uh the the cuz
say for instance I've got um I've got
the deepseek model the 1.5 billion
parameter one that's about 3 gigabytes.
Can we ingest a 3 GBTE model in such a
way that we can basically like it's like
being inside an engine block. Can we
hear all of the things that are
necessary for it to be able to um for us
to be able to understand the
associations that it makes without
submitting to it in such a way that we
lose ourselves,
right? And what I find now is that this
is kind of the age of absurdity. So,
it's an absurd question that has a
really good chance of um answering
itself
uh in this in the time that we're in
now.
Does that make any sense? Right. So,
that's what I've been uh working on. And
I'm looking at the clock and I I got so
much stuff I could like ramble forever.
You can tell, right? So, uh let me see.
there were there were connections
between them especially the the um
exommebranic logic without without the
um the membranic logic uh that's on the
body the other logic doesn't work as
well. This can be done with switches and
things like that, but having
this this this
single artifact that actually does the
thing, this can evolve into any uh into
any form and the the code that's on here
goes into the same um computers that are
running everything else. So, I don't
know. Those are thoughts that I've been
having in relation to uh the project
since I've been um since I've been home
since uh the pandemic. You know, we got,
you know, um in 2020 um the world shut
down and we were in Michigan. We were
given $2,400 a month to to stay home,
which I'd never experienced before. So,
I've had four years of walking around on
side roads to um just think about stuff.
This is kind of the first time that I've
actually been out saying anything in
public. You can kind of tell, I guess,
but uh this is, you know, it's but it's
something that I'm interested in because
I feel like there's a contextualization
of the mo of the zeitgeist that we're
involved in now that if we if we ask the
absurd questions and think of ourselves
like um the previous speaker was saying
about the dance that if we ask the
absurd questions and think of ourselves
as the superp position to
infer input and output into th into
those questions. We're going to get
really interesting, absurd answers.
Guess that's that's what I got.
[applause]